---
title: "Web Programming with Python and JavaScript"
subtitle: "L0-Git"
author: "tenten"
avatar: "img/authors/bear.jpeg"
image: "img/git.png"
typora-root-url: ..
---







# CS50-L0-Git-Web Programming with Python and JavaScript

How do we keep track of different versions of our code ?

How do we collaborate with other people?

How do we make sure that if we make a change and that change doesn't work that we have an easy way to go back to older versions of our code and make sure that we have access to those as well?

And so all of that falls under the larger umbrella of what's called **version control**.

**Git - version control tool** that people often use in industry in order to help maintain and manage different versions of their code in order to keep track of their projects and make sure that everything is organized and that they're able to effectively collaborate with other people along the way .

- keep track of your code
- synchronizing code between different people and making sure that everyone has access to that code base.
- Test your code without losing your original copy.
- Revert back to old versions of your code

<hr />

**GitHub - A website whose purpose in life  is to store Git repositories on the internet.**

- You can look at repositories that other people have created and contribute to them or use them.
- you can work on your own projects, push them to GitHub so that your collaborators or other people on the Internet can also see and use them as well. 

<hr />

**How to use Git - basic command**

- git clone <url>       

  - download remote version of your code to your computer
- git add <filename>
  - we are going to take some number of files, one or more files that we've changed and tell Git that these are files that we want to include the next time we make a commit, to the next time that we save a version or a snapshot of the current repository.
  - tell Git to track that file.
- git commit -m "message"
  - add some English message describing what it is that I've changed in this commit, describing what it is that's happened in this change that makes it different from previous versions of the code.
  - When you've done, what that'll do is have Git save a new version or a new snapshot of your repository in that comment keeping track of all of your old versions as well.
- git commit -am "message"

  - the usage of "git add" and "git commit" together
- git status

  - effectively tells you what's  currently going on in your repsitory
- git push

  - whatever changes that we've made to our code locally to be pushed to the remote server so that GitHub is now able to keep track of those changes that we've made.
- git pull

  - When someone else has been working on your repository, has made changes to it, and pushed those to GitHub, you want to download the latest version of that repository. You want to download the latest changes down onto your computer locally to take a look at it.

- git log

  - show you all of the commits that you've made.
- git reset
  - git reset --hard <commit>          this will reset your whole repository back to that version
  - git reset --hard origin/master




**Chrome Keyboard Shortcuts**

- Windows and Linux

| operation                   | shortcut         |
| --------------------------- | ---------------- |
| open a new window           | ctrl + n         |
| open a new tag              | ctrl + t         |
| go to the next tag          | ctrl + PgDn      |
| go to the last tag          | ctrl + PgUp      |
| close the current tag       | ctrl + w         |
| close the current window    | ctrl + shift + w |
| exit the chrome             | ctrl + shift + q |
| reload the current page     | F5               |
| save the page as a bookmark | ctrl + d         |



